# Backend Dvelopment guide

Backend development, also known as server-side development, refers to the creation and management of the technology and logic that powers the functionality of web and mobile applications behind the scenes. It focuses on data processing, business logic, and the interaction between the frontend (user-facing interface) and the server/databases.

Backend development is the engine that powers applications, ensuring they are functional, secure, and scalable. A backend developer is responsible for handling the data flow, logic, and performance of the application while ensuring it seamlessly integrates with the frontend. Mastering backend development requires a strong understanding of programming, databases, APIs, and system architecture.

## server-side

Mostly involve in choosing which content is to return to browser in response to request

## What can you do on server side ?

Server-side scripting is very usefull because it allows us to efficiently delever information tailored for individual users and there by create a much bettter user experience .

Advantages

- Efficient storage and delivery of information
- Coustomised user experience
- Controlled eccess to the content

Most large-scale websites use server-side code to dynamically display different data when needed, generally pulled out of a database stored on a server and sent to the client to be displayed via some code (e.g. HTML and JavaScript).

`Perhaps the most significant benefit of server-side code is that it allows you to tailor website content for individual users.` Dynamic sites can highlight content that is more relevant based on user preferences and habits. It can also make sites easier to use by storing personal preferences and information — for example reusing stored credit card details to streamline subsequent payments.

It can even allow interaction with users of the site, sending notifications and updates via email or through other channels. All of these capabilities enable much deeper engagement with users.

## Summary
server-side code is run on a web server and that its main role is to control what information is sent to the user (while client-side code mainly handles the structure and presentation of that data to the user).

You should also understand that it is useful because it allows us to create websites that efficiently deliver information tailored for individual users and have a good idea of some of the things you might be able to do when you're a server-side programmer.

Lastly, you should understand that server-side code can be written in a number of programming languages and that you should use a web framework to make the whole process easier.